I am Roxelana, born in 1502 in Ruthenia,
Ukraine. I am the chief consort and legal wife
of the Ottoman sultan Suleiman the Magnificent.
I became one of the most powerful and
influential women in Ottoman history
as well as a prominent and controversial figure
during the era known as the Sultanate of Women.
My father was an Orthodox priest. My
hometown was raided by Crimean Tatars
and I was eventually taken to Istanbul, the
Ottoman capital. I entered the Imperial house,
rose through the ranks, and became the favorite
of Sultan Suleiman. It was an ottoman tradition
to only marry foreign free noble ladies. Breaking
Ottoman tradition, I married sultan Suleiman and
he made me his first legal wife. I remained
in the sultan's court for the rest of my life,
enjoying a close and faithful relationship with
my husband, and having six children with him,
including the future sultan, Selim the second.
I was the grandmother of Murad the third.
I eventually achieved power, influencing the
politics of the Ottoman Empire. I played an active
role in the affairs of the state. I also acted as
the sultan's advisor, wrote diplomatic letters to
King Sigismund the second, Augustus of Poland, and
patronized major public works in Sultan Complex.
So extraordinary was my success that my enemies
saw witchcraft as the only possible explanation
for it. I was also characterized as a schemer
who plotted the assassination of İbrahim Pasha,
the sultan’s chief minister and Suleyman’s
oldest surviving son who stood between my
own remaining sons and the imperial succession.
the influence of the harem often overshadowed
that of the grand vizier, resulting in
the so-called “Sultanate of the Women,” a
state of affairs often attributed to my legacy.
I died in 1558, in Istanbul and was buried in a
mausoleum within the Suleymaniye Mosque complex.
My life was dedicated to my husband and our sons.
I did my best to build a house that helped keeping
our empire strong from the inside and from the
outside. I am Roksolana, the Ukrainian queen
of the ottoman empire, the empress of the east.